.TH MDKB 1 "2026" "mdkb v0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mdkb \- Markdown knowledge base with Claude Code integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdkb
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mdkb
is a fast, vim-like TUI for capturing and retrieving knowledge from
Claude Code conversations.
Conversations are automatically extracted into structured Markdown notes,
searchable via BM25 ranking, and loadable back into Claude as context
with a single keypress.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.I (none)
Launch interactive TUI mode.
.TP
.BI \-q " STR" ", " \-\-query " STR"
Search the knowledge base for \fISTR\fR using BM25 ranking.
Outputs results as JSON.
.TP
.BI \-\-load " STR"
Search and print the full content of the top-matching note.
.TP
.BI \-i " PATH" ", " \-\-ingest " PATH"
Import a Claude Code conversation file (JSONL format) into the archive.
.TP
.B \-\-pick
TUI pick mode: press \fBL\fR to select a note and exit, printing its path to stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-list
List recent entries as JSON without launching the TUI.
.TP
.B \-\-sync\-on
Register a Claude Code Stop hook so conversations are automatically
ingested and extracted into knowledge notes at session end.
.TP
.B \-\-sync\-off
Remove the Stop hook and disable auto-sync.
.TP
.B \-\-archive
Browse the raw conversation archive instead of the knowledge base.
.TP
.B \-\-reindex
Rebuild the in-memory BM25 search index from the knowledge directory.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage summary and exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-l " N" ", " \-\-limit " N"
Limit search results to \fIN\fR entries (default: 10).
.TP
.BI \-p " PATH" ", " \-\-path " PATH"
Override the knowledge base root directory (default: \fI~/.mdkb\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-title\-weight " N"
BM25 score multiplier for title matches (default: 10).
.TP
.BI \-\-tag\-weight " N"
BM25 score multiplier for tag matches (default: 5).
.TP
.BI \-\-content\-weight " N"
BM25 score multiplier for content matches (default: 1).
.SH TUI KEY BINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.BR j ", " \*(lk
Move selection down / up.
.TP
.BR g ", " G
Jump to first / last entry.
.TP
.B Tab
Toggle between Knowledge and Archive tabs.
.SS Search and Filter
.TP
.B /
Enter a search keyword.
.TP
.BR r ", " R
Clear search and show all entries.
.TP
.B t
Filter by Topic (press again to clear).
.TP
.B T
Cycle Type filter: knowledge / code / workflow.
.TP
.B i
Open Inbox Review to triage draft notes.
.SS Multi-select
.TP
.B m
Toggle mark on the current entry; cursor advances.
.TP
.B A
Mark all visible entries (respects active filter). Press again to unmark all.
.TP
.B M
Clear all marks.
.SS Actions
.TP
.B Enter
Open the current note in Markdown Reader mode.
.TP
.B L
Launch Claude Code with all marked notes loaded as system-prompt context.
If a session is suspended, resumes it instead.
.TP
.B c
Start a new Claude Code session in the note's original working directory.
.TP
.B R
Resume a suspended Claude Code session.
.TP
.B E
Edit the title, topic, or tags of the current note inline.
.TP
.B Y
Yank (copy) the current note content to the clipboard.
.TP
.B d
Delete the current note (with confirmation).
.TP
.B ?
Show the in-TUI help screen.
.TP
.BR q ", " Q
Quit mdkb.
.SH CLAUDE CODE SKILLS
After installation the following slash commands are available inside Claude Code:
.TP
.B /mdkb-read
Step-by-step guided reading of notes loaded via the \fBL\fR key.
.TP
.B /mdkb-workflow
Execute a loaded workflow or SOP note.
.TP
.B /mdkb-workflow-create
Interactive builder for creating new workflow notes.
.TP
.B /mdkb-tidy
Merge duplicate notes, fix stale code references, and archive low-value notes.
.TP
.B /mdkb-sync-on
Enable the auto-sync Stop hook.
.TP
.B /mdkb-sync-off
Disable the auto-sync Stop hook.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.mdkb/knowledge/
Organized knowledge notes, structured as \fIrepo/topic/*.md\fR.
.TP
.I ~/.mdkb/knowledge/_inbox/
Draft notes awaiting triage.
.TP
.I ~/.mdkb/knowledge/_archive/
Archived notes hidden from the main index.
.TP
.I ~/.mdkb/archive/
Raw Claude Code conversation transcripts.
.TP
.I ~/.mdkb/.sync-enabled
Presence of this file indicates auto-sync is active.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/skills/mdkb-*/
Installed Claude Code skill definitions.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/mdkb/scripts/
Helper scripts used by the sync hook and \fB\-\-sync\-on\fR / \fB\-\-sync\-off\fR.
.SH NOTE FORMAT
Knowledge notes are Markdown files with YAML frontmatter:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\-\-\-
title: "Note Title"
type: knowledge
repo: "my-project"
topic: "auth"
tags: [jwt, oauth, type:knowledge]
status: verified
updated: 1745000000
\-\-\-
.fi
.RE
.PP
Valid \fBtype\fR values are \fBknowledge\fR, \fBcode\fR, and \fBworkflow\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Search for notes about authentication:
.B mdkb \-q "JWT auth" \-l 5
.TP
Enable auto-sync and launch the TUI:
.B mdkb \-\-sync\-on && mdkb
.TP
Rebuild the index after manually adding notes:
.B mdkb \-\-reindex
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Anderson Chang
